HTTP Swagger (#412)
telefonicaid/iotagent-ul: docs/usermanual.md

> MQTT is a machine-to-machine (M2M)/IoT connectivity protocol, focused on a lightweight interaction between peers. MQTT

Reviewer: I'd suggest to add the following entry to CHANGEX_NEXT_RELEASE:

```
- Add: /api-docs endpoint provising swagger-based documentation
```

or something similar

Author: fixed in 2808c0b11be011d26b2a3c9e0077e1c4a22c056c

is based on publish-subscribe mechanisms over a hierarchical set of topics defined by the user.

This section specifies the topics and messages allowed when using MQTT as the transport protocol for Ultralight 2.0. All
the topics subscribed by the agent (to send measures, to configuration command retrieval or to get result of a command)
are prefixed with the agent procotol:

```text
/ul/<apiKey>/<deviceId>
```

where `<apiKey>` is the API Key assigned to the service and `<deviceId>` is the ID of the device.

All topis published by the agent (to send a comamnd or to send configuration information) to a device are not prefixed

> by the protocol, in this case '/ul', just include apikey and deviceid (e.g: `/FF957A98/MydeviceId/cmd` and

Reviewer 2: Line 205 correct All topis => All topics
Line 207 replace '/ul' with backticks `/ul` to display as monospace

Author: fixed in 8f66e1a31efaf583c99a9625d92709ffe5057c25

# Use git-bash on Windows
npm run prettier:text
```

### Swagger

In order to run Swagger, you need to execute the IOT Agent (as explained [here](installationguide.md#usage) and then you
can access to:

> 

Reviewer: I'd suggest to add a sentence about which API is being covered by the swagger documentation. Something like this:

> The swagger documentation provided at /api-docs covers the HTTP southbound interface of the agent. The northbound HTTP interface is not covered.

Author: fixed in 2c34c9ab082a7e0b43255d21f690ffed0157703d

# Use git-bash on Windows
npm run prettier:text
```

### Swagger

> In order to run Swagger, you need to execute the IOT Agent (as explained [here](installationguide.md#usage) and then you

Reviewer: Travis CI detects the following problem regarding this line:

  551:49  ✓ error  Incorrect usage of the term: “IOT”, use “IoT” instead  terminology

Please, fix it.

(Full log: https://travis-ci.org/telefonicaid/iotagent-ul/jobs/639955851?utm_medium=notification&utm_source=github_status)

Author: fixed in 83450903a8c2896246a015ebe22c3f59469d3e7d

# Use git-bash on Windows
npm run prettier:text
```

### Swagger

In order to run Swagger, you need to execute the IoT Agent

> (https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-ul/blob/master/docs/installationguide.md#usage) and then you can access to:

Reviewer 2: Missing square brackets for link: 
```md
[IoT Agent](http://etc.)
```

Author: fixed in 53b15a6eccc20866ec89dd363d57d95513e620f0

```
<server_host>:7896/api-docs
```

> If you want to test the HTTP Protocol, two importants points:

Reviewer: From this point on, is this really needed to have the swagger web working at api-docs/ ? Or do you refer to steps needed to run IOTA-UL in general?

Author: steps needed to run IOTA-UL in general

Reviewer: In that case, I'd suggest removing all this part (i.e. from L559). Note that you already include a link to a document that explains how to run IOTA in L553. Repeating a long explanation about it here is a bit out of scope from my point of view.

Author: fixed in 2808c0b11be011d26b2a3c9e0077e1c4a22c056c

-   you should know that other services are needed (see

>     https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-ul/blob/master/docs/installationguide.md#installation):

Reviewer 2: Remove URL from text - use a link e.g.
```md
( see [installation](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-ul/blob/master/docs/installationguide.md#installation) )
```

Author: fixed in 8f66e1a31efaf583c99a9625d92709ffe5057c25

    -   Mosquitto
    -   Mongo
    -   Rabbitmq
    -   Orion

-   you need to Provisioning a Device and Provisioning a Service Group (see this tutorial

>     https://fiware-tutorials.readthedocs.io/en/latest/iot-agent/index.html#connecting-iot-devices)

Reviewer 2: Remove URL from text - use a link e.g.

```md
[tutorial](https://fiware-tutorials.readthedocs.io/en/latest/iot-agent/index.html#connecting-iot-devices)
```

Author: fixed in 8f66e1a31efaf583c99a9625d92709ffe5057c25

For example, you could use this script:

> ```

Reviewer 2: Add bash code highlight

```
 ```bash
```

Author: fixed in 8f66e1a31efaf583c99a9625d92709ffe5057c25

# Use git-bash on Windows
npm run prettier:text
```

### Swagger

In order to run Swagger, you need to execute the

> [IoT Agent](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-ul/blob/master/docs/installationguide.md#usage) and then you can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IOT Agent (as explained [here](installationguide.md#usage) and then you can
```

Author: fixed in 2808c0b11be011d26b2a3c9e0077e1c4a22c056c

access to:

```

> <server_host>:7896/api-docs

Reviewer: One doubt...

IOTA exposes two ports: one corresponding to the "southbound interface" (to which the devices send measures and command responses) and another corresponding to the "nourthbound interface" (in which the IOTA provides the provisioning API, i.e. to create a new device, etc.).

Does this /api-docs endpoint work in both ports? Or only in northbound/southbound?

Author: we have developed the Swagger documentation only for the HTTP protocol (https://fiware-iotagent-ul.readthedocs.io/en/latest/usermanual/index.html#http-binding), so this version of swagger documentation (1.0.0) works only in southbound.

Reviewer: Northbound is also HTTP-based...

However, if /api-docs only works in southbound, fine with it. I just want to confirm how it works ;)

Author: This documentation has been based on the sending of measurements using exclusively the HTTP protocol, so works in southbound.

Author: fixed in 2164dc01ef8494fe5ab99c5da6956cd8fa9b9094
